feature(github): create github connector example (#524)
fivetran/fivetran_connector_sdk: connectors/github/README.md

# GitHub Connector Example

## Connector overview

> This connector integrates with the GitHub REST API to synchronize repository data, commits, and pull requests into your destination. It supports both GitHub.com and GitHub Enterprise (on-premises). The connector uses GitHub App authentication for secure access and supports incremental sync to efficiently fetch only new or updated data. It handles pagination automatically and implements robust error handling with retry logic for production use.

Reviewer: GitHub Enteprise can also be cloud-based (and reached via github.com)

GitHub is a code hosting platform for version control and collaboration. This connector provides comprehensive insights into your organization's repositories, development activity, and code review processes.

## Requirements

- [Supported Python versions](https://github.com/fivetran/fivetran_connector_sdk/blob/main/README.md#requirements)
- Operating system:
  - Windows: 10 or later (64-bit only)
  - macOS: 13 (Ventura) or later (Apple Silicon [arm64] or Intel [x86_64])
  - Linux: Distributions such as Ubuntu 20.04 or later, Debian 10 or later, or Amazon Linux 2 or later (arm64 or x86_64)

## Getting started

Refer to the [Connector SDK Setup Guide](https://fivetran.com/docs/connectors/connector-sdk/setup-guide) to get started.

## Features

- GitHub App authentication - Uses JWT-based authentication for secure, long-term access.
- Incremental sync - Fetches only new or updated data since the last sync using timestamp filtering.

> - Multi-organization support - Can sync data from multiple GitHub organizations in a single run.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
- Multi-organization support - Syncs data from multiple GitHub organizations in a single run, if required.
```

- Automatic pagination - Handles GitHub's pagination (100 items per page) automatically.
- State management - Tracks sync progress per repository for reliable resumption after interruptions.
- Rate limiting - Implements delays between requests and handles rate limit errors gracefully.
- Retry logic - Automatic retry with exponential backoff for transient errors.
- Checkpointing - Saves progress every 1000 records during large repository syncs, once after each repository completes, and once after all organizations are fully processed.

## Configuration file

The configuration file contains the GitHub App credentials required to authenticate with the GitHub API.

```json
{
  "app_id": "<YOUR_GITHUB_APP_ID>",
  "private_key": "<YOUR_GITHUB_APP_PRIVATE_KEY>",
  "organization": "<YOUR_ORGANIZATION_NAME>",
  "installation_id": "<YOUR_INSTALLATION_ID>"
}
```

> For GitHub Enterprise installations, add a `"base_url"` field with your enterprise instance URL (e.g., `"base_url": "https://github.your-company.com/api/v3"`).

Reviewer: ```suggestion
For on-premises GitHub Enterprise instances, add a `"base_url"` field with your instance's URL (e.g., `"base_url": "https://github.your-company.com/api/v3"`).
```
As mentioned, enterprise can also mean Cloud, doesn't have to be on-premises

```
pyjwt==2.11.0
cryptography==36.0.1
```

Explanation: PyJWT is used for GitHub App JWT authentication. The cryptography package is required by PyJWT for RSA algorithm support (RS256), which is used to sign JWTs with the GitHub App's private key.

The `fivetran_connector_sdk` and `requests` packages are pre-installed in the Fivetran environment. To avoid dependency conflicts, do not declare them in your `requirements.txt`.

## Authentication

### GitHub app setup

This connector uses GitHub App authentication, which is the recommended approach for production integrations. Follow these steps to set up a GitHub App:

1. Create a GitHub App
   - Go to your organization settings: `https://github.com/organizations/{your-org}/settings/apps`
   - Click **New GitHub App**
   - Fill in **GitHub App name**: Choose a descriptive name (e.g., "Fivetran Data Sync")
   - Fill in **Homepage URL**: Your organization's website or `https://fivetran.com`
   - Uncheck **Webhook** "Active" (not needed for this connector)

2. Set permissions
   - Under **Repository permissions**, set **Contents** to Read-only (to access repository data)
   - Set **Metadata** to Read-only (automatically required)

>    - Set **Pull requests** to Read-only (to access PR data)

Reviewer: @fivetran-sinchanahegde Please apply the same formatting to all steps as suggested above

- Rate limiting: Adds 2-second delay between page requests to respect GitHub's rate limits.

Example pagination flow:
1. Request first page: `GET /orgs/{org}/repos?per_page=100`.
2. Parse `Link` header: `<https://api.github.com/orgs/{org}/repos?page=2>; rel="next"`.
3. Request next page using extracted URL.
4. Continue until no "next" link is present.

## Data handling

### Incremental sync

The connector supports incremental synchronization to minimize API calls and processing time. Implemented in `get_repositories()`, `get_commits()`, and `get_pull_requests()` functions:

Repositories:
- Sorts by `updated` timestamp in descending order (note: `GET /orgs/{org}/repos` does not support a `since` query parameter).
- Filters client-side - stops paginating as soon as a repository's `updated_at` is older than the last sync timestamp.

Commits:
- Uses the `since` query parameter supported by `GET /repos/{owner}/{repo}/commits` to fetch only commits after last sync time.
- Tracked per repository in state.

Pull requests:
- Fetches both open and closed PRs.
- Filters by `updated_at` timestamp.

> - Stops fetching when encountering PRs older than last sync.

Author: changing this.

### State management

The connector maintains detailed state for resumable syncs, managed in the `update()` function with `process_repository_data()` helper:

```json
{
  "last_repo_sync": "2024-02-13T10:30:00Z",
  "processed_repos": {
    "org/repo1": {
      "last_commit_sync": "2024-02-13T10:35:00Z",
      "last_pr_sync": "2024-02-13T10:35:00Z"
    }
  }
}
```

State fields:

> - `last_repo_sync` - The timestamp when the last full sync completed. On the next run, only repositories updated after this time are fetched. This value only advances once all organizations are fully processed.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
- `last_repo_sync` - The timestamp when the last full sync completed. On the next run, the connector fetches only repositories updated after this date/time. This value only advances once all organizations are fully processed.
```

| `created_at` | TIMESTAMP | Repository creation timestamp |
| `updated_at` | TIMESTAMP | Last update timestamp |
| `pushed_at` | TIMESTAMP | Last push timestamp |
| `archived` | BOOLEAN | Whether the repository is archived |
| `disabled` | BOOLEAN | Whether the repository is disabled |

### commits

Contains commit history for all repositories. Column types shown below are typical but may be inferred differently based on the data.

| Column | Type | Description |
|--------|------|-------------|
| `sha` | STRING | Primary key - Unique commit SHA hash |
| `repository` | STRING | Repository name (owner/repo) |
| `message` | STRING | Commit message |
| `author_name` | STRING | Commit author name |
| `author_email` | STRING | Commit author email |
| `author_date` | TIMESTAMP | When the commit was authored |
| `author_login` | STRING | GitHub username of author |
| `committer_name` | STRING | Committer name |
| `committer_email` | STRING | Committer email |
| `committer_date` | TIMESTAMP | When the commit was committed |
| `committer_login` | STRING | GitHub username of committer |
| `html_url` | STRING | Commit web URL |

> ### pull_requests

Reviewer: Same here

| `head_ref` | STRING | Source branch name |
| `head_sha` | STRING | Source branch commit SHA |
| `base_ref` | STRING | Target branch name |
| `base_sha` | STRING | Target branch commit SHA |
| `html_url` | STRING | PR web URL |
| `draft` | BOOLEAN | Whether the PR is a draft |
| `merged` | BOOLEAN | Whether the PR was merged |

## Additional considerations

The examples provided are intended to help you effectively use Fivetran's Connector SDK. While we've tested the code, Fivetran cannot be held responsible for any unexpected or negative consequences that may arise from using these examples. For inquiries, please reach out to our Support team.

### GitHub API rate limits

- Authenticated requests - 5,000 requests per hour per installation.
- Rate limit header - Connector checks `X-RateLimit-Reset` to determine how long to wait when a rate limit is hit.
- Automatic handling - Waits until rate limit resets when limit is hit.
- Delay between requests - 2 second delay to avoid hitting limits unnecessarily.

### Running the connector

To run the connector locally for testing:

```bash
fivetran debug --configuration configuration.json
```

> For production deployment, follow the [Fivetran Connector SDK deployment guide](https://fivetran.com/docs/connectors/connector-sdk/deployment).

Reviewer: This is covered in the rest of the docs. I don't think we need to repeat it here

### Example use cases

- Development analytics - Track commit frequency, PR velocity, and code review metrics.
- Repository management - Monitor repository growth, stars, forks, and activity.
- Team productivity - Analyze contributor activity, PR turnaround time, and collaboration patterns.
- Compliance and security - Audit code changes, track repository settings, and monitor access.
- Cross-repository insights - Compare activity across multiple repositories in your organization.

### Troubleshooting

#### Common issues

404 error on installation token

> - Verify your **App ID** matches the GitHub App.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
- Verify your App ID matches the GitHub App.
```
